All right, let's code our sign in component.
So we're not gonna do it right at this page.
And the reason behind that
is because we want to in its own component.
Because you can literally pop
this sign in component or whatever you want.
Especially like if somebody is trying to access
like a component that is restricted,
they can only see it when they're signed in,
then you can simply just see if the user's logged in.
If not, render out the signing component
otherwise render out the component
that has privilege that you want to show them.
So we'll go into our components here.
And we'll make a new one called SignIn.js.
Capital S, capital I.
And we'll export default function SignIn().
And we need a form that is going to allow us to
get their username,
or the sorry,
their email address and their password.
So we've done this a couple of times.
So feel free to skip ahead if you know how to do this
or maybe this is a good example
of when you can do it yourself.
But as always, I'll take you along for the ride.
So we need a form.
Take capital F because that is our styles that we have and,
doesn't look like it's in here.
So what we'll do is we'll import Form from'./styles/Form'.
And here let's give it a form and say,
test.
Then we'll try to use this sign in component
on our sign in page.
Now we've got to import that.
Boom!
Sign in. Nothing was returned from render.
Oh, that's why my auto import wasn't working.
(laughing) I always forget the return.
There we go.
So our test is showing up.
Next,
and this is this is very important.
On our form tag, we need to put a method of post on it.
And we normally don't do that.
But I'll show you the reason behind it
because if you have an input with the
name
of password
and the type of password,
you don't have to code this I'll just show you.
Button type = "submit"> Submit.
Watch this, if I type in here
and JavaScript for whatever reason is broken,
and I go ahead and submit it,
you see what happens in the URL bar.
It puts the password in the URL bar.
And then all of a sudden what you've done is,
first, you've had a security issue with your user
because now their password is in their browser history.
And then second, that's security issue on your end
because somewhere on your logs for your server
it will say like,
get whatever.
Like that's the URL someone tried to request.
And then you've got a problem
because you have somebody's password
in your logs on your server.
And you should never know somebody's password.
That should always be stayed as hash.
So what will happen is you can just put a...
what is it here?
You can put a type of submit.
Where did it go?
Oh yeah, I didn't put it on yet.
If you put a method of post,
that will make sure that it doesn't go into the URL.
You still gotta be careful
that you don't log out the body of that request
'cause it still will send it over to your server.
But it won't put it in the URL, which is really important.
Next up, what we need is
a field set.
And in that field set, we need a label for email.
We need a label that says email.
We need it input with the type of email.
Everything is going to be email here.
name = "email"
placeholder = Your Email Address.
autoComplete = "email" that will...
Most browsers will take the type of email
and try to auto complete it.
But that doesn't hurt putting it in there.
That way it tells the browser,
hey, if you're trying to fill an auto complete,
this is an email. This is an email field.
And then we finally, I'm gonna comment this out,
we need a value.
And we need an
onChange handler for that one.
So that is looking good.
Yeah, see if I focus it my one password
is already trying to say,
hey, I recognize this.
I wonder if you take the email off, does it still do that?
Yeah, it does.
So it can detect it.
But that never hurts.
Then just copy that entire one
and we're gonna do it for their password.
So (humming a note)
password.
The label is password.
The type is password,
the name is password, the placeholder is...
Do passwords have placeholders?
Yeah, they do. Okay.
And we need a value and an onchange.
And then finally underneath that,
we need a button with the type of submit
and then it says Sign In.
Beautiful, put a capital I on that.
Okay, so that's our just our JSX.
Now we need to be able to sync these values to state
so that we can send the data
to our sign in API once the user actually submits it.
So we'll go up here and we'll say
const  =
you guessed it, useForm.
And then we need to give it our defaults of emails
of nothing and password is nothing as well.
UseForm is not defined.
We didn't import it.
So import useForm from
useForm.
Okay. Now we can go ahead and update these values here.
So the value=
and the onchange is going to be
handleChange.
We can put that in for the password as well
and then just change email to password.
Now, if I type into these fields here,
they good.
They now update.
There's one little issue here.
No, that's not still an issue.
That was just a problem because I hadn't refreshed yet
before we had hooked up the value in the onchange handlers.
All right.
So that's that so far.
Next thing,
we need is,
Oh I guess we need a little <h2> tag here.
This is Sign Into Your
Account.
When somebody submits the form,
we need to send that data to an API.
So we'll go to our form here and say,
onSubmit=
and we can either do this
in line or define another function.
Let's define another function.
'Cause I showed you this way last time.
So handleSubmit.
Go up here and make a function called handleSubmit
that takes in an event.
First thing we'll do is e.preventDefault.
That will stop the Form from submitting.
And then we'll just log out inputs
just to see what data we have.
So if you type some stuff in here and submit it.
Oh it's got to be a proper email address.
There we go.
We've get an object with the actual values in here.
A couple of times I've had people
email me saying that this is security issue
because the password is in clear text.
I hate to break it to you
but that is how the browser works.
If you ever have a password field
and you want to know what's in it,
you can simply just inspect it
and change the type from password to text.
And it will just display it in clear text.
So the password is submitted over the wire
or over the network, to your server in clear text.
But then what happens is the server hashes it
and compares it to what it has on file for its own hash.
So that's how all passwords work on the internet.
So that is totally fine.
The thing that you might be concerned about is,
okay we're sending my password in clear text
over the network.
And that's why we use HTTPS on our websites.
And what HTTPS does is that
when the client, which is the browser,
and the server, which is the (laughing) server,
when data goes between the client
and the server, it goes over
like your Wi-Fi router.
It goes to your ISP.
It goes through the US government.
Who's going to sniff it.
(chuckling) And I'm just joking about that.
Well, maybe I'm not.
But the idea is that the data coming from here to here,
HTTPS make sure that that's encrypted.
Meaning that anyone that could possibly sniff these packets
along the way, they they'll just see something like this
instead of your actual password.
And that's the key there.
That's why we use HTTPS on our website.
Next, we need to, because we're logging out our inputs.
Here what we need to do is send the email
and password to the
graphqlAPI.
So we'll write a little query here.
So const SIGNIN_MUTATION= gql.
Import that.
Boom!
There it is.
We'll have a mutation called SIGNIN_MUTATION.
that takes in someone's email address which is a string
and is required.
And then it also takes in a password
which is also a string that's required.
Like you'll never want to call this mutation without
both an email address and a password.
Then, inside of that mutation, we call what it is
on our graphqlAPI to log the user in.
So if we go here,
it will be
user,
it'll be authenticate,
Oh no, it's a mutation.
So we got to write mutation here.
And that is going to be
authenticateUserWithPassword.
Let me take a look at our docs here.
Search for authenticateUserWithPassword
takes in an email and a password,
and will return,
ah, look at this!
It's another union.
It returns either,
a UserAuthenticationWithPasswordFailure
or it returns a success, right?
So the result is going to be one of two things,
a success response with a token and the user itself
or it's going to be a failure response
with a code and a message.
So what we'll do here,
is we'll say ...on User...
I got a copy paste that. That's way too big.
UserAuthenticationWithPasswordSuccess.
If that happens, give me the item
which is going to be a user again.
Remember item could be anything.
Could be a company in our case, it's obviously a user.
So on the item,
give me the ID,
the email and the name of the currently logged in user.
We're not actually gonna use this.
I just want to show you
that you can return the user from that.
Then in here,
we need to call that mutation.
So let's set it up here.
Up here, so we'll say
const [sign In].
That's the name of the mutation.
And then also = useMutation.
And you pass the name of the mutation.
We also need to pass it, the username and the password.
So those are passed as variables,
which are stored in our inputs.
And luckily those will map nicely to each other.
And then we also want to refetch some queries.
And what this will do is
refetch,
the currently logged in user.
So refretchQueries, that's an array.
Each query is an object and we say,
Query: Current_ User_Query.
Now I think that auto imported it.
Yap.
From our user.
And that's exactly why we exported it from here
because it will say, all right
anywhere that you're using this query,
let's just go back to the network
and refetch that specific one.
So give it a save.
The reason why we're not just like updating it
in the cache is because then we're going
to get into querying the cart
and orders and things like that.
And I don't want to have
to requery all of that every single time.
In here, we simply can just tell it,
all right. I did this query somewhere else.
Go ahead and re fetch that for me, will you?
Then this useMutation gives us back our sign in function
so we can go in here.
Let's actually mark this as async.
And we can say const or not const.
Await signin.
And if you want to see what comes back from that sign in,
you can store it in a variable and log it out.
And we should see.
So now if we go back, I'm going to sign in.
Password is Wes Wes Wes. Go to my console. Clear it out.
Sign in.
Bit of an issue.
Response not successful. Received a status code 400.
Okay.
Fragment can not be spread here
as objects of type of mutation can never be
of type UserAuthenticationWithPasswordSuccess.
Why not?
Oh, I see what we forgot.
We forgot to actually run
the name of the mutation here, right?
Because we've got a variable.
We defined what the mutation is.
But we never actually called
the authenticateUserWithPassword function here.
So we've got to do that now.
So authenticateUserWithPassword.
Email is the email string.
Password is the...
Oops.
Password is the password variable.
And then,
as a result of that,
there we go.
Some of this stuff seems a little repetitive
and verbose to me sometimes.
I think that's typed stuff in general.
The same thing as with TypeScript.
You're like, why, I have to type this again?
This seems like a little bit much
but definitely worth the hassle.
Why? Because like, even though we broke it there,
we got a really good error message back saying like,
hey this is a thing,
but you're not ever supposed to get that here.
Something got goofed up when you did that.
So now give it a save, refresh.
Let's try sign in again.
There we go.
Look at that. Okay.
Couple of things happen there, is we get the data.
The authenticateUserWithPassword.
I got the actual information about my account.
Good.
And then also look.
The navigation changed immediately because we refetched
that query and we are now logged in.
And now the navigation has now changed
and updated what it's in.
We actually don't need this value right here.
And if you ever wanted the data here
somewhere else, you can also get it from here.
That's what data is, right?
There's two different ways.
You can get it from the returned
asynchronous function here,
or you can restructure it from your mutation.
In our case, we don't want either.
We just simply just have to refresh the query
and it will be apparent.
One thing we do need to do is reset the form
cause it needs to empty it on out.
And then we also do need to account for errors.
So let's just make sure that reset works.
There we go.
It worked. Now it is clear.
We also need to account for errors.
So if I do,
something like that,
sign in.
Oh, we don't get an error there
'cause I'm currently logged in.
The way that you can
sign out,
because we don't have a sign out button yet.
It's just close it and reopen a new incognito.
And then we'll go wesbos@gmail.com
and the password is no.
Sign in.
You see, we get a UserAuthenticationWithPasswordFailure.
Okay.
Is that information available in this error variable?
Let's console.log it to see.
So just pretty much anywhere.
Log.
It is undefined.
Okay. So this is a bit of a weird thing
is that
the mutation
is successfully erroring.
Meaning that this mutation, even though it comes back,
it's successfully erroring
and we're not actually logged in.
So what we need to do is to capture that error
and pass it to an error component.
So what we'll do here, is we need to de structure
that data value here.
We need to go up here
and query the actual information about the error.
So let's take a look at what we got here.
UserAuthentication
WithPasswordFailure.
So go here say, ... on
the failure.
Then we want the code
and the message.
So say, code. The message.
And now let's try to console.log the error
to see what we're working with.
There it is. Data.
UserAuthenticationWithPassword.
And the type name is...
IDENTITY_NOT_FOUND.
The email value provided isn't identifying any of the users.
So what we can do is we'll get our error component.
And we'll do it right here.
error=.
Let's copy paste that. These are some long strings.
.Failure.
I love using these question marks
because this error component won't render out anything
unless this entire nested property is actually a thing.
So we need to import our error component.
So, import Error from
error message.
Let's see if it works now.
Didn't work. Why not?
Let's try it with a manual error here.
So the error could be just something
with a message that says, ahhhhhhhhh.
Okay. So if we pass it an object
with an error message on it,
it says, shoot! Ahhhhhhh.
But, if we pass it,
UserAuthenticationWithPasswordFailure.
Ah, is it a capital?
Is it the capital?
Let's look at our docs here.
This is where something like TypeScript would really help us
because it would immediately say,
hey, that's not a possible property on there.
So let's take a look here.
Don't see it as a capital U.
I bet it's not.
Let's just try it with a lowercase U.
So not@not. Not.
Sign in.
No! Okay.
Let's look at it here.
Oh, I see the issue.
It's data.authenticateUserWithPassword.
And then we have to say, it's the type name.
I see.
So what we'll do here is we'll say,
the error is that.
And,
we'll go up here and make a little variable.
Say const error =
We can stop de-structuring this because we don't need it.
We don't lock to console.log it.
And right here we'll say,
the error = data?authenticatedUserWithPassword._ _typename
===
that type.
If that is true, then,
will return that.
Otherwise will return undefined because there is no error.
Oh, these are backwards. Excuse me here.
Hoo! Okay, that was a big one.
Let me catch you up if he got lost there.
The error is equal to the response
but only when the response's type name is this.
It's a little bit weird
that they don't throw like a 400 network error
because then a regular error component would work.
But that's the case here successfully errored.
If that is true,
then we return the response which is an error.
Otherwise we return nothing.
And then we can go into our error component
and simply just pass that value.
I bet that will work, hopefully.
(Wes laughing)
There we go. Sign in. Boom! There we go.
Shoot! The value provided didn't identify any of its users.
Last thing, some people think that this is
a bit of a security issue telling somebody.
Like someone could come here
and check if anyone has an account.
And if this was like a sensitive website,
like a dating website or something like that,
you would be able to tell if somebody has an account
on that with that.
So there is a setting in keystone
where you can simply just turn that off.
I honestly don't think it's that big of a deal
because it's a street wear website
and not a dating website.
So, there's that one.
That's the sign in component.
And the next one
we will code a sign out and a sign up component.